---
layout:     post
title:      "MOOG 2017与2019版本对比"
subtitle:   "Oh"
date:       2019-12-24
author:     "mingjie"
header-img: "img/post-contri_func.png"
tags:
    - learning

---

Chris Sneden的[MOOG](https://www.as.utexas.edu/~chris/moog.html)悄咪咪地从FEB2017版变成了NOV2019版。
Let's see what is changed.

## Modified functions

The driver `isotop` is deprecated, and its functions are merged into the driver `synth`.
To my understanding, we need to use `isotop` driver before when we specify the `isotope` variable, but now we don't need to do this.

## New/deleted files

2017版的`Estim.f`和`Minimax.f`在2019版中消失了。2019版中多了`Inmodel.new`、`Setmols.f`和`Setmols.r`。

`Estim.f` and `Minimax.f` no longer exist in 2019 version.
`Inmodel.new`,`Setmols.f` and `Setmols.r` are added in 2019 version.

### 文件之间的变化 (Changes in files)

有21个文件发生了变化。一个一个来看有什么不同吧。程序文件：`Bmolec.f`, `Eqlib.f`, `Ewfind.f`, `Inmodel.f`, `Lineinfo.f`, `Mol.com`, `Moog.f`, `Moogsilent.f`, `Nearly.f`, `Opacit.f`, `Opacmetals.f`, `Specplot.f`, `Sunder.f`；安装文件：`Makefile.macdesk`, `Makefile.macdesksilent`, `Makefile.maclap`, `Makefile.maclapsilent`, `Makefile.rh`, `Makefile.rh64`, `Makefile.rh64silent`, `Makefile.rhsilent`。
几乎有一半是安装文件。

21 files have been changed in 2019 version.  
They are program files: `Bmolec.f`, `Eqlib.f`, `Ewfind.f`, `Inmodel.f`, `Lineinfo.f`, `Mol.com`, `Moog.f`, `Moogsilent.f`, `Nearly.f`, `Opacit.f`, `Opacmetals.f`, `Specplot.f`, `Sunder.f`; and installation files: `Makefile.macdesk`, `Makefile.macdesksilent`, `Makefile.maclap`, `Makefile.maclapsilent`, `Makefile.rh`, `Makefile.rh64`, `Makefile.rh64silent`, `Makefile.rhsilent`.

#### Bmolec

> This routine contains the default list of molecules and ions used in the
     equilibrium calculations. This list includes species needed for
     continuous opacity and damping calculations in addition to the ions and
     molecules that have an affect of the partial pressures of the following:
     H, He, C, N, O, Mg, Al, Si, P, S, Cl, Ca, Ti, V, Cr, and Fe.

- He+, F+, Al+, Si+, Ti+, Fe+, AlH, SiH, FeH, MgO, and TiO are added into variable `smallmollist`.
- F+ is added into variable `largemollist`.
- Partition functions of H_2O and CO_2 are added and are from [HITRAN](https://hitran.org/data/Q/) website.

#### Eqlib

Only some comments are added.

#### Ewfind

Some calculation detail and output format is change (I think they just simply the code but do not make change to the result).
Further I am not using this subroutine.

#### Inmodel

The length of default molecule list is enlarged (probably consistent with `Bmolec`).
The valiable `numdens` now are not used in 2019 version.

#### Lineinfo

Some calculation detail is changed according to `Sunder`.

#### Makefile

The make detail is changed. Hope it works without modification.

A sentence "NOTE: the isotop driver has been eliminated; your synthesis needs for elemental and isotopic abundances now can be handled with the synth driver" is added.

#### Mol.com

Variable name changed and added.

#### Moog.f

A new warning on `isotop`.

#### Nearly

Allowed triatomic calculation for H_2O and CO_2.

#### Opacit, Opacmetals

Number slightly changed.

#### Specplot

Output changed, but this subroutine is not used by me.

#### Sunder

> This routine breaks up molecule amol into leftmost atom i1 and        
     the rest of the molecule i2.

Not sure yet.

## Does the synthetic spectra changed?

No (or I haven't found them for now). I did a quick compare using the same patch file and found the differences between spectra are 0.
